Principles of Computer Networking
=================================

Definitions
-----------

Network - A system of channels that interconnect
Computer Network - A communication network that moves information, made
of general purpose computers.

Network Layers
--------------
+ Physical - defines electrical and physical specifications of the data
  connection.
+ Data link - provides a reliable link between two directly connected nodes by
  detecting and possibly correcting errors that may occur in the physical
  layer.
+ Network - provides the means to transffer datagrams from one node to another
  on the same network.
+ Transport - provides reliable sending of data packets between nodes
  (with addresses) on a network, providing reliable data transfer servieces
  to the upper layers.
+ Application - manages process-to-process communication over the network.

Addressing
----------
Each node usually has a unique address used to identify it.
Different network layers have different addressing schemes, such as Ethernet
addresses in the Link layer, and IPv4/IPv6 addresses in the Network layer.
These addresses are used to route data from sender to destination accross
multiple link hops.

Hourglass philosophy of the Internet
------------------------------------
If everyone just supports IP, it becomes possible to use many different
applications over many different networks.
In practice, the narrow waist is now network and transport layers, due
to NAT.

NAT
---
In computer networking, Network Address Translation (NAT) is the
process of modifying IP address information in IPv4 headers
while in transit across a traffic routing device.
This allows packets to be delivered to their intended recipient on a
private network by hiding an IP Address space, usually consisting of
private IP addresses behind a single IP address (or in some cases, a
small group of IP addresses) in another (usually public) address space.
To avoid ambiguity in the handling of returned packets, a one-to-many
NAT must alter higher level information so that return packets can be
correctly translated back.
Other names include PAT (Port Address Translation), IP Masquerading,
NAT Overload and many-to-one NAT.
Since this is the most common type of NAT, it is often referred to
simply as NAT.

Internet Protocol (IP)
----------------------
IP is used to send and recieve Internet packets.
Most computer networks are connected by Internet protocol.
IP runs over many phisical networks, and identifies hosts by a unique
4-byte IP address.
Eg: www.blaze-pay.com -> 151.236.219.228

Given an IP address, the network routes a packet.

IP:
+ Uses datagrams
  A datagram is a basic transfer unit associated with a packet-switched
  network in which the delivery, arrival time, and order of arrival are
  not guaranteed by the network service.

+ Is unreliable
  Packets may be dropped in transit, and the sender will not be notified
  of the delivery status of the transmitted data.

+ Best Effort
  Best-effort delivery describes a network service in which the network
  does not provide any guarantees that data is delivered or that a user
  is given a guaranteed quality of service level or a certain priority.
  In a best-effort network all users obtain best-effort service,
  meaning that they obtain unspecified variable bit rate and delivery
  time, depending on the current traffic load.
  The postal service delivers letters using a best-effort delivery
  approach.
  The delivery of a certain letter is not scheduled in advance - no
  resources are preallocated in the post office.
  The mailman will make his "best effort" to try to deliver a message,
  but the delivery may be delayed if too many letters arrive to a postal
  office suddenly.
  The sender is not informed if a letter has been delivered
  successfully.

+ Uses connectionless communication
  Connectionless communication is a data transmission method used in
  packet switching networks by which each data unit is individually
  addressed and routed based on information carried in each unit,
  rather than in the setup information of a prearranged, fixed data
  channel as in connection-oriented communication.
  Under connectionless communication between two network end points, a
  message can be sent from one end point to another without prior
  arrangement.
  The device at one end of the communication transmits data addressed
  to the other, without first ensuring that the recipient is available
  and ready to receive the data.
  Some protocols allow for error correction by requested retransmission.
  Internet Protocol (IP) and User Datagram Protocol (UDP) are
  connectionless protocols.
  Connectionless protocols are usually described as stateless protocols
  because the end points have no protocol-defined way to remember where
  they are in a "conversation" of message exchanges.

The IP Service Model prevents packets looping forever by using the
Time-to-Live (TTL) field.
Packets are fragmented if they are too long, and uses a checksum to
reduce the chances of delivering to the wrong destination.
It is also extensible, allowing for new versions of IP, and for new
options to be added to the header.
The current versions are IPv4 (32 bit addresses) and IPv6
(128 bit addresses).

Inter-process communication
---------------------------
To communicate between processes (not just nodes), we encapsulate other
protocols within IP, such as TCP and UDP.
TCP and UDP both use 16-bit port numbers and 32-bit IP addresses.
Applications bind a port, and recieve traffic to that port.

+ UDP - User Datagram Protocol
  UDP is a connectionless protocol that provides unreliable transport.
  Packets may be dropped, reordered and duplicated, but generally not
  corrupted.

+ TCP - Transmission Control Protocol
  TCP provides the illusion of a reliable 'pipe' between two processes on
  different machines.
  It handles congestion and flow control, to avoid flooding the network with
  packets.
