Introduction to Artificial Intelligence
=======================================

Artificial Intelligence can be described as the automation of activities
associated with human thinking, such as decision making, problem solving and
learning.

The Turing Test
---------------
The Turing Test (Alan Turing, 1950) was designed to provide a satisfactory
operational definition of intelligence.
A computer passes the test if a human, after posing some written questions,
cannot tell if the responses come from a person or from a computer.
This means the computer must have the following capabilties:

+ Natural languge processing
  This will enable the computer to communicate successfully.

+ Knowledge representation
  To enable it to store what it knows or hears

+ Automated reasoning
  To use the stored information to answer questions and to draw new conclusions

+ Machine learning
  To allow it to adapt to new circumstances, and to detect and extrapolate
  patterns.

The total Turing Test
---------------------
The total Turing Test includes a video signal, to allow the human interrogator
to test the subject's perceptual abilities, as well as the opportunity for the
human to pass objects to the subject.
In order to pass the total Turing Test, a computer will need, in addition to
the qualities requied to pass the Turing Test:

+ Computer vision
  To allow it to perceive objects

+ Robotics
  To manipulate objects and move about.

The six requirements of the Turing Test compose most of AI, however,
researchers devote little effort to passing the Turing Test, believing it more
important to study the underlying principles of intelligence rather than to
duplicate human intelligence.
